# Overview for `GlowingOverscrollIndicator`

## Description

A visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

 A [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] listens for [ScrollNotification]s in order
 to control the overscroll indication. These notifications are typically
 generated by a [ScrollView], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

 [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] generates [OverscrollIndicatorNotification]
 before showing an overscroll indication. To prevent the indicator from
 showing the indication, call
 [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.disallowIndicator] on the notification.

 Created automatically by [ScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] on platforms
 (e.g., Android) that commonly use this type of overscroll indication.

 In a [MaterialApp], the edge glow color is the overall theme's
 [ColorScheme.secondary] color.

 ## Customizing the Glow Position for Advanced Scroll Views

 When building a [CustomScrollView] with a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator], the
 indicator will apply to the entire scrollable area, regardless of what
 slivers the CustomScrollView contains.

 For example, if your CustomScrollView contains a SliverAppBar in the first
 position, the GlowingOverscrollIndicator will overlay the SliverAppBar. To
 manipulate the position of the GlowingOverscrollIndicator in this case,
 you can either make use of a [NotificationListener] and provide a
 [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.paintOffset] to the
 notification, or use a [NestedScrollView].

 
 This example demonstrates how to use a [NotificationListener] to manipulate
 the placement of a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] when building a
 [CustomScrollView]. Drag the scrollable to see the bounds of the overscroll
 indicator.

 ** See code in examples/api/lib/widgets/overscroll_indicator/glowing_overscroll_indicator.0.dart **
 

 
 This example demonstrates how to use a [NestedScrollView] to manipulate the
 placement of a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] when building a
 [CustomScrollView]. Drag the scrollable to see the bounds of the overscroll
 indicator.

 ** See code in examples/api/lib/widgets/overscroll_indicator/glowing_overscroll_indicator.1.dart **
 

 See also:

  * [OverscrollIndicatorNotification], which can be used to manipulate the
    glow position or prevent the glow from being painted at all.
  * [NotificationListener], to listen for the
    [OverscrollIndicatorNotification].
  * [StretchingOverscrollIndicator], a Material Design overscroll indicator.

## Dependencies

- StatefulWidget

## Members

- **showLeading**: `bool`
  Whether to show the overscroll glow on the side with negative scroll
 offsets.

 For a vertical downwards viewport, this is the top side.

 Defaults to true.

 See [showTrailing] for the corresponding control on the other side of the
 viewport.

- **showTrailing**: `bool`
  Whether to show the overscroll glow on the side with positive scroll
 offsets.

 For a vertical downwards viewport, this is the bottom side.

 Defaults to true.

 See [showLeading] for the corresponding control on the other side of the
 viewport.

- **axisDirection**: `AxisDirection`
  
 The direction of positive scroll offsets in the [Scrollable] whose
 overscrolls are to be visualized.
 

- **color**: `Color`
  The color of the glow. The alpha channel is ignored.

- **notificationPredicate**: `ScrollNotificationPredicate`
  
 A check that specifies whether a [ScrollNotification] should be
 handled by this widget.

 By default, checks whether `notification.depth == 0`. Set it to something
 else for more complicated layouts, such as nested [ScrollView]s.
 

- **child**: `Widget?`
  The widget below this widget in the tree.

 The overscroll indicator will paint on top of this child. This child (and its
 subtree) should include a source of [ScrollNotification] notifications.

 Typically a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] is created by a
 [ScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] method, in which case
 the child is usually the one provided as an argument to that method.

## Constructors

### Unnamed Constructor
Creates a visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

 In order for this widget to display an overscroll indication, the [child]
 widget must contain a widget that generates a [ScrollNotification], such
 as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

