# Overview for `RawKeyboard`

## Description

An interface for listening to raw key events.

 This class is deprecated and will be removed at a future date. The
 [HardwareKeyboard] class is its replacement.

 Raw key events pass through as much information as possible from the
 underlying platform's key events, which makes them provide a high level of
 fidelity but a low level of portability.

 A [RawKeyboard] is useful for listening to raw key events and hardware
 buttons that are represented as keys. Typically used by games and other apps
 that use keyboards for purposes other than text entry.

 These key events are typically only key events generated by a hardware
 keyboard, and not those from software keyboards or input method editors.

 ## Compared to [HardwareKeyboard]

 Behavior-wise, [RawKeyboard] provides a less unified, less regular event
 model than [HardwareKeyboard]. For example:

 * Down events might not be matched with an up event, and vice versa (the set
   of pressed keys is silently updated).
 * The logical key of the down event might not be the same as that of the up
   event.
 * Down events and repeat events are not easily distinguishable (must be
   tracked manually).
 * Lock modes (such as CapsLock) only have their "enabled" state recorded.
   There's no way to acquire their pressing state.

 See also:

  * [RawKeyDownEvent] and [RawKeyUpEvent], the classes used to describe
    specific raw key events.
  * [RawKeyboardListener], a widget that listens for raw key events.
  * [SystemChannels.keyEvent], the low-level channel used for receiving events
    from the system.
  * [HardwareKeyboard], the recommended replacement.

## Members

- **instance**: `RawKeyboard`
  The shared instance of [RawKeyboard].

- **_listeners**: `List&lt;ValueChanged&lt;RawKeyEvent&gt;&gt;`
- **_cachedKeyEventHandler**: `RawKeyEventHandler?`
- **_cachedKeyMessageHandler**: `KeyMessageHandler?`
- **_modifierKeyMap**: `Map&lt;_ModifierSidePair, Set&lt;PhysicalKeyboardKey&gt;&gt;`
- **_allModifiersExceptFn**: `Map&lt;PhysicalKeyboardKey, LogicalKeyboardKey&gt;`
- **_allModifiers**: `Map&lt;PhysicalKeyboardKey, LogicalKeyboardKey&gt;`
- **_keysPressed**: `Map&lt;PhysicalKeyboardKey, LogicalKeyboardKey&gt;`
## Constructors

### _


