# Overview for `HttpServer`

## Description

A server that delivers content, such as web pages, using the HTTP protocol.

 Note: [HttpServer] provides low-level HTTP functionality.
 We recommend users evaluate the high-level APIs discussed at
 [Write HTTP servers](https://dart.dev/tutorials/server/httpserver) on
 [dart.dev](https://dart.dev/).

 `HttpServer` is a [Stream] that provides [HttpRequest] objects. Each
 `HttpRequest` has an associated [HttpResponse] object.
 The server responds to a request by writing to that [HttpResponse] object.
 The following example shows how to bind an `HttpServer` to an IPv6
 [InternetAddress] on port 80 (the standard port for HTTP servers)
 and how to listen for requests.
 Port 80 is the default HTTP port. However, on most systems accessing
 this requires super-user privileges. For local testing consider
 using a non-reserved port (1024 and above).

 ```dart
 import 'dart:io';

 void  async 
 ```

 Incomplete requests, in which all or part of the header is missing, are
 ignored, and no exceptions or [HttpRequest] objects are generated for them.
 Likewise, when writing to an [HttpResponse], any [Socket] exceptions are
 ignored and any future writes are ignored.

 The [HttpRequest] exposes the request headers and provides the request body,
 if it exists, as a Stream of data. If the body is unread, it is drained
 when the server writes to the HttpResponse or closes it.

 ## Bind with a secure HTTPS connection

 Use [bindSecure] to create an HTTPS server.

 The server presents a certificate to the client. The certificate
 chain and the private key are set in the [SecurityContext]
 object that is passed to [bindSecure].

 ```dart
 import 'dart:io';

 void  async 
 ```

 The certificates and keys are PEM files, which can be created and
 managed with the tools in OpenSSL.

## Dependencies

- Stream

## Members

- **serverHeader**: `String?`
  Gets and sets the default value of the `Server` header for all responses
 generated by this [HttpServer].

 If [serverHeader] is `null`, no `Server` header will be added to each
 response.

 The default value is `null`.

- **autoCompress**: `bool`
  Whether the [HttpServer] should compress the content, if possible.

 The content can only be compressed when the response is using
 chunked Transfer-Encoding and the incoming request has `gzip`
 as an accepted encoding in the Accept-Encoding header.

 The default value is `false` (compression disabled).
 To enable, set `autoCompress` to `true`.

- **idleTimeout**: `Duration?`
  Gets or sets the timeout used for idle keep-alive connections. If no
 further request is seen within [idleTimeout] after the previous request was
 completed, the connection is dropped.

 Default is 120 seconds.

 Note that it may take up to `2 * idleTimeout` before a idle connection is
 aborted.

 To disable, set [idleTimeout] to `null`.

## Constructors

### listenOn
Attaches the HTTP server to an existing [ServerSocket]. When the
 [HttpServer] is closed, the [HttpServer] will just detach itself,
 closing current connections but not closing [serverSocket].

#### Parameters

- `serverSocket`: `ServerSocket`
