# Overview for `StretchingOverscrollIndicator`

## Description

A Material Design visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

 A [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] listens for [ScrollNotification]s in order
 to stretch the content of the [Scrollable]. These notifications are typically
 generated by a [ScrollView], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

 When triggered, the [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] generates an
 [OverscrollIndicatorNotification] before showing an overscroll indication.
 To prevent the indicator from showing the indication, call
 [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.disallowIndicator] on the notification.

 Created by [MaterialScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] on platforms
 (e.g., Android) that commonly use this type of overscroll indication when
 [ThemeData.useMaterial3] is true. Otherwise, when [ThemeData.useMaterial3]
 is false, a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] is used instead.=

 See also:

  * [OverscrollIndicatorNotification], which can be used to prevent the
    stretch effect from being applied at all.
  * [NotificationListener], to listen for the
    [OverscrollIndicatorNotification].
  * [GlowingOverscrollIndicator], the default overscroll indicator for
    [TargetPlatform.android] and [TargetPlatform.fuchsia].

## Dependencies

- StatefulWidget

## Members

- **axisDirection**: `AxisDirection`
  

- **notificationPredicate**: `ScrollNotificationPredicate`
  

- **clipBehavior**: `Clip`
  

 Defaults to [Clip.hardEdge].

- **child**: `Widget?`
  The widget below this widget in the tree.

 The overscroll indicator will apply a stretch effect to this child. This
 child (and its subtree) should include a source of [ScrollNotification]
 notifications.

## Constructors

### Unnamed Constructor
Creates a visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled by
 applying a stretch transformation to the content.

 In order for this widget to display an overscroll indication, the [child]
 widget must contain a widget that generates a [ScrollNotification], such
 as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

