# Overview for `RawKeyEvent`

## Description

Defines the interface for raw key events.

 This type of event has been deprecated, and will be removed at a future
 date. Instead of using this, use the [KeyEvent] class instead, which means
 you will use [Focus.onKeyEvent], [HardwareKeyboard] and [KeyboardListener]
 to get these events instead of the raw key event equivalents.

 Raw key events pass through as much information as possible from the
 underlying platform's key events, which allows them to provide a high level
 of fidelity but a low level of portability.

 The event also provides an abstraction for the [physicalKey] and the
 [logicalKey], describing the physical location of the key, and the logical
 meaning of the key, respectively. These are more portable representations of
 the key events, and should produce the same results regardless of platform.

 See also:

 * [LogicalKeyboardKey], an object that describes the logical meaning of a
   key.
 * [PhysicalKeyboardKey], an object that describes the physical location of a
   key.
 * [RawKeyDownEvent], a specialization for events representing the user
   pressing a key.
 * [RawKeyUpEvent], a specialization for events representing the user
   releasing a key.
 * [RawKeyboard], which uses this interface to expose key data.
 * [RawKeyboardListener], a widget that listens for raw key events.

## Dependencies

- Diagnosticable

## Members

- **character**: `String?`
  Returns the Unicode character (grapheme cluster) completed by this
 keystroke, if any.

 This will only return a character if this keystroke, combined with any
 preceding keystroke(s), generated a character, and only on a "key down"
 event. It will return null if no character has been generated by the
 keystroke (e.g. a "dead" or "combining" key), or if the corresponding key
 is a key without a visual representation, such as a modifier key or a
 control key.

 This can return multiple Unicode code points, since some characters (more
 accurately referred to as grapheme clusters) are made up of more than one
 code point.

 The [character] doesn't take into account edits by an input method editor
 (IME), or manage the visibility of the soft keyboard on touch devices. For
 composing text, use the [TextField] or [CupertinoTextField] widgets, since
 those automatically handle many of the complexities of managing keyboard
 input.

- **repeat**: `bool`
  Whether this is a repeated down event.

 When a key is held down, the systems usually fire a down event and then
 a series of repeated down events. The [repeat] is false for the
 first event and true for the following events.

 The [repeat] attribute is always false for [RawKeyUpEvent]s.

- **data**: `RawKeyEventData`
  Platform-specific information about the key event.

## Constructors

### Unnamed Constructor
Abstract const constructor. This constructor enables subclasses to provide
 const constructors so that they can be used in const expressions.

### fromMessage
Creates a concrete [RawKeyEvent] class from a message in the form received
 on the [SystemChannels.keyEvent] channel.

 [RawKeyEvent.repeat] will be derived from the current keyboard state,
 instead of using the message information.

#### Parameters

- `message`: `Map&lt;String, Object?&gt;`
